## Important Info for the tax payer

{: .short-version }

This is not a real tax statement. It only provides barcodes so that your bank data can be imported.

**Important**: No warranty, _you_ are responsible for the content of this file.

- Please check the details of this statement carefully.

Please see the section 'Important Info & Actions for the tax payer' at the end
of this document.

{: .long-version }

This is not a real tax statement. It only contains barcodes for
importing the bank data into the tax software. It is solely meant to
be imported into tax preparation software such as "PrivateTax" that can amend the tax calculations.

- Please check the details of this statement carefully.
- You can import this statement into your tax software.
- For more information, see [docs/user_guide.md](https://github.com/vroonhof/opensteuerauszug/blob/main/docs/user_guide.md).

### Key actions to take

- **Verify Data**: Check that no errors or warnings were generated during the process.
- **Securities**: Ensure all your securities are listed and correctly mapped to the right Valor number.
- **Transactions**: Confirm that all transactions for the tax year are present and correct and that total values look plausible.
- **Positions**: Double-check that the end-of-year positions for all your holdings are accurate.
- **Cash**: Verify that all cash balances are correct.
- **Income**: Check that all interest and dividend income is correctly reported.
- **Recalculate in Tax Software**: After importing this document into your tax software, use its feature to **recalculate all tax values** based on the official Kursliste data it contains.
- **Verify the data landed in the Tax Software**: PrivateTax for example allows showing the imported structured information in the editor view.

### Disclaimer and Your Responsibility

**This document is generated by an unaudited tool and comes with no warranty.**

You, the taxpayer, are solely responsible for the accuracy and completeness of your tax return. Please use this document as an aid, but not as a substitute for your own due diligence.
