## Important Info & Actions for the tax payer

These descriptions get inlined into the tax document. This section of the file is ignored

{: .short-version }

**Important**: No warranty, _you_ are responsible for the content of this file.

- Please check the details of this statement carefully.

Please see the section 'Important Info & Actions for the tax payer' at the end
of this document.

{: .long-version }

- Please check the details of this statement carefully.
- You can import this statement into your tax software.
- For more information, see [docs/user_guide.md](https://github.com/vroonhof/opensteuerauszug/blob/main/docs/user_guide.md).

### Key actions to take

- **Verify Data**: Check that no errors or warnings were generated during the process.
- **Securities**: Ensure all your securities are listed and correctly mapped to the right Valor number.
- **Transactions**: Confirm that all transactions for the tax year are present and correct and that total values look plausible.
- **Positions**: Double-check that the end-of-year positions for all your holdings are accurate.
- **Cash**: Verify that all cash balances are correct.
- **Income**: Check that all interest and dividend income is correctly reported.
- **Recalculate in Tax Software**: After importing this document into your tax software, use its feature to **recalculate all tax values** based on the official Kursliste data it contains.
- **Verify the data landed in the Tax Software**: PrivateTax for example allows showing the imported structured information in the editor view.

### Disclaimer and Your Responsibility

**This document is generated by an unaudited tool and comes with no warranty.**

You, the taxpayer, are solely responsible for the accuracy and completeness of your tax return. Please use this document as an aid, but not as a substitute for your own due diligence.
